well let's bring in Muhammad El MRI now
professor of media studies at the Doha
Institute for Graduate Studies he joins
me live uh on the set here good to see
you again um I want to pick up again on
Bernard's reporting there from occupied
East Jerusalem where He suggests
that a one form of discussion taking
place now among Israeli opinion makers
is the concern that some of them may
have that this attack in Gaza becomes a
pivotal moment around which World
opinion consolidates and we've seen that
with a number of countries speaking up
now again calling for an immediate
ceasefire we've seen it in Arab
countries pointing the finger again at
Israel for firing on civilians and that
this is a moment when Israel gets forced
into a ceasefire that it doesn't want
can you see this as a pivotal moment a
moment for
change you know I think it's possible
but I also want to to remind all of us
that Israel has committed numerous
atrocities over the past 5 months
they've attacked hospitals they've
attacked un shelters they've uh attacked
schools University universities
residential buildings and they've been
condemned uh we've talked about the
opinion polling data we've talked um on
this set I've spoken with you about uh
condemnations that have come in from
from leaders in Europe and from the
global South even the United States has
gone on record in the past uh um sort of
uh condemning some of Israel's uh uh
actions in Gaza and so I'm not convinced
yet that a massacre of around 100 people
is going to change things when we've
been averaging a couple of hundred
people killed per day for five months
it's a stockk singular event though and
it happens at a moment in time when
negotiations are taking place apparently
in pretty Advanced stages towards some
sort of a ceasefire if not a final
ceasefire so it is tempting to see it as
that sort of a moment of course it's all
about the United States and the Israeli
is apparently particularly concerned
that this might be a moment that the
United States uses to try and leverage
them into a ceasefire any sign of a
shift in the US position well I watched
some of the remarks uh yesterday and uh
it didn't look like it to me the the
United States Administration is saying
uh pretty much what it's been saying for
the last 5 months after isra commits uh
some sort of Massacre or atrocity so I'm
not seeing evidence yet well you know
we'll have to watch things over the next
few days if if there's pressure from the
International Community um you know
leaders in Europe that's that's possible
but the you mentioned the negotiations
for a ceasefire the the the you know the
sticking point there has always been the
end game Israel has been adamant that
it's going to effectively destroy Gaza
it doesn't use those words but we we see
what they're doing on the ground we we
hear the rhetoric um coming out of
Israeli political circles they want to
make life unlivable they're trying to
ethnically cleanse Gaza as part of their
so-called greater Israel plan as long as
that remains their intent there's just
not a lot of incentive for Hamas uh uh
to to agree to to agree to a deal sure
it's possible right Israel doesn't mind
waiting a few weeks in that sense right
to continue its operation so it is
possible that there is a ceasefire
reached before uh Ramadan but something
more sustained something permanent I'm
still I'm still uh
skeptical I mean it must be the case
must it not that Israel even with that
singular Vision
recognizes that there is not an infinite
amount of road down which it can travel
that that road is getting shorter and
shorter that eventually the pressures of
an a coming election in the United
States will bear on the Biden
Administration and is already those
pressures showing already and that
eventually they will be reigned in well
we would like to think so but U many
people also said that Israel would be
reigned in um after the icj hearings um
a month and a half or so ago but in fact
what they did was intensify their
bombardment of Gaza in the aftermath of
those hearings um I think now if you
follow the Israeli media they're they're
actually feeling quite confident looking
at this recent poll by Harvard and
Harris which shows that almost 70% of
Americans believe that Israel is acting
in self-defense that they're acting with
restraint and so Israel is feeling
confident that the us is going to
continue to to back them right Muhammad
Elm thank you for your analysis